DMIT 2033 Web Design & Usability ll
Case Study - Focus Photography Club
Background
The Focus Photography Club started as a casual get-together of a few friends and
acquaintances who shared an interest in photography as a hobby or a more serious
endeavour. The monthly meetings quickly grew, and it wasn’t long before Rowan (one of
the founders) decided to take more of an official lead and establish some structure to
help manage the club.
The first thing that Rowan did was to host the monthly meetings on meetup.com so they
could start requiring registration and track participants. The club quickly realized that
they gained a few new attendees every month, had participants who only attended
semi-regularly, and had a group of participants who attended on a fairly regular basis.
Along with the growth and popularity of the photography club, there have been requests
and talk of adding events to go along with the regular meetings. Some ideas are
workshops, speakers, photography trips, gallery shows, and access to a dark room for
film development. Rowan has already tried some of these ideas, and they seem to be
met with enthusiasm. However, word-of-mouth and meetup.com are the only ways
these events are advertised, and some people have expressed disappointment that
they missed out. Secondly, some of these events will require some type of financing to
run.
Although the monthly meetings started as casual get-togethers where everyone seemed
to enjoy the company and break off into smaller groups for side conversations, lately,
the meetings have taken on more of a formal format. Rowan or other members now
start each meeting with a brief talk on various photography topics, focusing primarily on
beginner subjects to engage everyone's interests. However, Rowan is beginning to
wonder if some of the more advanced participants might be growing weary of the
beginner-focused content.


Problem 1: Membership Application
Rowan sees the limitations of continuing with meetup.com for all the future needs of the
club. Currently, they only know which participants attend each meeting but lack any
details about them and have no way to reach out to individuals directly. Rowan and the
club would like to move to a membership model. Each participant would have to apply
to become a member of the club before they can join any meetups or events.
Memberships will cost $40 per year to help fund some of the events. Members will only
pay the fee once they have become approved.
The Focus Photography Club would like you to design the UI of a digital
platform to allow potential members to apply for membership in an easy-to-
use way.
The following information will be needed from potential members:
• Name
• DOB
• Email & Phone Number
• Experience Level, select one of:
• beginner
• intermediate
• advanced
• Equipment, select any of:
• DSLR / SLR
• Point and Shoot
• Smartphone
• Compact Fixed Lens
• Areas of Interest (of indeterminate length)
• Portfolio Submission (Upload up to 5 photos with descriptions)
• Accepted file formats JPG, JPEG, PNG, BMP, HEIC, HEIF
• Total file size cannot exceed 10MB
• Reason for Joining (Max 250 word)
• Agreement to club terms and code of conduct
The photography club originally started as a group of friends roughly the same age, but
with the added growth, Rowan knows that the current participant’s ages range greatly. It
shouldn’t be assumed that any person applying will have any special technical
knowledge.
The digital application will also need to be user-friendly for all devices. Users should be
guided through the process without any pain points or sources of frustration. It should
be obvious what each component does and what each input is asking for. That all needs
to be balanced with a simplified level of complexity to encourage users to complete the
application.



Problem 2: Review Applicants, Track Details, &
Manage Events
When the club was small, everyone knew each other and had each other’s email
addresses. It was easy to contact everyone to let them know of a meeting change or
any other announcement.
While Rowan has some names and contact information from people who have
registered via meetup.com, keeping track of details and individual participation has
been almost impossible without any data centralization. Rowan has tried to gather some
of this data in Excel spreadsheets, but it’s time-consuming, there are missing entries,
and the information is overwhelming as separate pieces.
The Focus Photography Club would like you to design the UI that allows for
efficient review of applications, tracking of membership details, and management
of events.
Membership Applicants
Rowan will need a simple way to review applications as they come in. Each applicant
will have a status applied: pending, reviewed, or accepted. New applications will
automatically be ‘pending,’ but Rowan will need to be able to edit the status to accept
new members.
Additionally, there should be a way to access all members, see an overview, and sort
them by their level of experience, areas of interest, and membership status. There
should also be a way to view the full details of each member and remove a member if
expired.
Event Management
Instead of using meetup.com, Rowan would like to create the monthly meetings and
other events here for approved members to sign up and register for. There should be an
easy way to create new events and add all necessary details. Ideally, the events could
be created and saved for review before publishing.
Each event will have the following details to add:
• Type of event
• Regular meetups
• Workshop
• Speaker Night
• Photography Trip
• Gallery Night
• Darkroom Access
• New Event
• Time and Date
• Location
• An image showing the event
There should be a way to review all events and tell if they are past events, saved events
waiting for review, and published upcoming events. There should also be a way to
publish events after they are created.
Furthermore, Rowan would love to have some way to track and see the attendance of
past events. Highlighting the engagement would help the administrators identify
interests and know what type of events to plan for in the future.

Rowan hopes that once a user-friendly digital platform is in place, other founding
members can assist in running and organizing the club. In that case, the design needs
to be clear and functional for new administrators who will be working on various types of
devices. Assume that users have no prior knowledge of how the platform is intended to
work.